# AllStat Library
A library for fast converting an error code into the name of the corresponding constant and retrieving the error description test. The reverse conversion from constant name to error code is also supported.

## Purpose
The main purpose of the **allstat** library is to make the logs generated by programs more readable due to the fact that they contain the names of constants, and not numerical error codes. At the same time, this task is solved without loss of performance so the library uses a hash tables to access data.

## Language support
The library is written on **C++** and can be built for **Windows**, **Linux** and **MacOS** as a dynamic or static linking library. At the moment, support for the use of the library by projects in **C**, **C++**, **Python**, **Golang** has been implemented. A dynamic library can be used from a project in any programming language by calling the exported functions. Write to us if you have any problems connecting the library to your project.

## Types of errors
The library currently supports the following types of errors / status codes:

#### NTSTATUS
Many kernel-mode standard driver routines and driver support routines use the **NTSTATUS** type for return values.        Additionally, drivers provide an **NTSTATUS**-typed value in an IRP’s IO_STATUS_BLOCK structure when completing IRPs. The **NTSTATUS** type is defined in Ntdef.h, and system-supplied status codes are defined in Ntstatus.h.

#### Win32 error	
**Win32 error** codes MUST be in the range 0x0000 to 0xFFFF, although **Win32 error** codes can be used both in 16-bit fields (such as within the **HRESULT** type specified in section 2.1) as well as 32-bit fields. Most values also have a default message defined, which can be used to map the value to a human-readable text message; when this is done, the Win32 error code is also known as a message identifier.

#### HRESULT
**HRESULT** is a data type used in Windows operating systems, and the earlier IBM/Microsoft OS/2 operating system, to represent error conditions, and warning conditions. The original purpose of HRESULTs was to formally lay out ranges of error codes for both public and Microsoft internal use in order to prevent collisions between error codes in different subsystems of the OS/2 operating system. HRESULTs are numerical error codes. Various bits within an **HRESULT** encode information about the nature of the error code, and where it came from.
**HRESULT** error codes are most commonly encountered in COM programming, where they form the basis for a standardized COM error handling convention.

#### HTTP Status Code
Hypertext Transfer Protocol (**HTTP**) response status codes. Status codes are issued by a server in response to a client’s request made to the server. It includes codes from IETF Request for Comments (RFCs), other specifications, and some additional codes used in some common applications of the **HTTP**. The first digit of the status code specifies one of five standard classes of responses. The message phrases shown are typical, but any human-readable alternative may be provided.

#### errno
Integer value, which is returned by system calls and some library functions in the event of an error to indicate what went wrong. **errno** is defined by the ISO C standard to be a modifiable lvalue of type int, and must not be explicitly declared; errno may be a macro. **errno** is thread-local; setting it in one thread does not affect its value in any other thread.

#### Kern Return
Apple Kernel return codes

#### Ipp Status
The **IppStatus** constant enumerates the status values returned by the Intel IPP functions, indicating
whether the operation is error-free.

## Performance
Data access is implemented through a hash tables. Thus, the maximum number of loops when searching for a value is the maximum number of elements in the branch of the hash table. For the largest types of errors, this size currently does not exceed 150. And on average, this size is 20-30 elements per branch

## Custom build
You can use macros listed below to make a custom build of allstat library. An example of the project which uses custom build of allstat library can be found by following link - (custom allstat compile project)[https://github.com/efmsoft/custom_allstat_compile]

#### AS_BUILD_[GENERATOR]
GENERATOR is one of values of **AS_GENERATOR** enumerator. Define macro as 0 to exclude error/status code modules from build. if **AS_CUSTOM_BUILD** macro is not defined, all AS_BUILD_[GENERATOR] assumed to be set to 1

#### AS_COMPRESS_DESCRIPTION
If **AS_NO_DESCRIPTION** is not defined, descrition strings are included to binary in compressed form. If description strings are compressed, the data size is five times smaller.

#### AS_CUSTOM_BUILD
If defined, all error/status modules (except explicitly included via defining AS_BUILD_[GENERATOR]=1) are excluded from the build

#### AS_ENUM_PREFIX
Prefix for generating for error/status enumerators and error/status constants. A prefix can be defined to fix name conflict.

#### AS_NO_DESCRIPTION
Description strings are omitted. Is neither **AS_NO_DESCRIPTION** nor **AS_COMPRESS_DESCRIPTION** defined
Descrition strings are included to binary. Strings are not compressed

## Compactness
The data is organized in such a way that it is possible to avoid including all the data when building the application with link to static version of AllStat library. For example, if the application references only Errno2Str(), then during linking only the common library modules and data tables referring to errno will be linked to the application. In this case, the maximum size in the data tables of each of the error types take error description strings. The library can be built with defined macro **AS_NO_DESCRIPTION**. In this case, the description data will be an empty string. It is also possible to store description strings in a compressed form (see the **AS_COMPRESS_DESCRIPTION** macro).
Please note that when referring to some functions (for example, Name2Item() or GetDescriptionStrC()), the data of all tables will be linked to the application. Functions leading to the linking of all data are collected in the LinkAll.cpp module

## Examples of usage
The (WhatIs service)[https://efmsoft.com/what-is/] of EfmSoft company is built on the use of the **AllStat** library. You can also use the (ErrorLookup utility)[https://efmsoft.com/error-lookup-utility/] (the source code of the utility is included in the examples) instead of the standard utility shipped with Microsoft Visual Studio - errlook.exe.
